That is the kind of large part of the,
these are the things,
the kind of the more
between the transcript,
between some of these two lanes,
between some of the practices around that.
Things that you will encounter kind of
beyond the basics as you go to then put in
tests, put in TypeScripts, start putting
some of the fetching pieces, right?
What you choose to do will likely
impact an existing application, right?
And how you pull these things together
is that, if you're doing NPM and
it maybe you can do the some of
the basic stuff a lot of times.
Stuff that you can take piecemeal and
just grab that has that
reliability of immediate typing,
easy to test, I think,
becomes the pieces of infrastructure that
you can more reasonably rely on over time.
I think it's a trope, but
I think as I've done this longer and
longer, when I get what
about this shiny new tool,
I'm kind of like,
I don't have it in me, right?
I need something that's simple,
reliable, easy to test.
But then when I do need to
do kind of advanced things,
has an ecosystem ready to plug it in.
And those, I think, become much more
sustainable patterns over time.
>> Is it rude to just go
into work on Monday and
just start using Redux Toolkit on my own
without referencing or asking my team?
>> All right.
>> And TypeScript and
all these other things.
[LAUGH]
>> [COUGH] All right,
let's peel apart parts of that question.
>> [LAUGH] Is it rude, first of all?
>> That's the question we're gonna answer.
I have the secret advantage
of being the boss.
So I have to still tread
lightly because nobody likes
[LAUGH] the person who then goes.
Yeah, they have to hear me talk cuz I can
say stuff like that towards the end of
the workshop cuz there's no way.
So I think it depends.
So to the point that we made at
the beginning of the workshop,
stuff like the create action,
create reduce or
even create slice fit
in an existing Redux.
There's no, we have to change everything.
TypeScript, you're gonna get yourself,
you're gonna have to sit down
have a conversation, right?
Because the way it worked for us,
which is I remember it very clearly,
which was like we were starting this,
this was 2018.
And we were gonna start this rewrite cuz
I think I've told this story before.
It was an application that was
originally Ruby on Rails app.
Then it was a Ruby on Rails app
with a CoffeeScript and jQuery hat.
Then they put a React hat on top of
the CoffeeScript and jQuery hat.
And then they were gonna
move the back end to AWS and
rip out the Ruby on Rails
that was underneath, right?
So I say that because I am not the person
who cavalierly goes into the rewrite.
Having done now two of them in my life,
I would like to never do it again.
But that was the first, so I've made
the mistake a second time since then,
but yeah.
So there was this, okay,
we have to, we're basically there,
take out the foundation of it.
We're gonna have to do something here.
And it was definitely one of those.
We started a small team,
was just kind of someone's got to
keep the lights on in the old thing,
set trail on the new thing.
It was like,
we should do it in TypeScript.
Nah, the team's gonna revolt.
And then at one point, we just kinda
floated the idea and then everyone's like,
why aren't you all doing it in TypeScript?
And we're like,
we thought you wouldn't let us, right?
So you might get lucky in that sense, but
like-
>> I know that's not gonna happen.
>> I think it's also easier in 2022,
right?
>> Another question.
So it seems straightforward with Redux
toolkit where I can just start doing it
in Files moving forward and we can
slowly go back and refactor old ones.
But with TypeScript,
is it something you can just like, okay,
I have this new component I'm gonna make.
I'm gonna do TypeScript on this even
though nothing else is TypeScript yet.
>> Yes-ish, when we talked about
in the React performance course,
a lot of those I didn't pure JavaScript
simply to make them accessible.
I didn't wanna have
a prerequisite on TypeScript.
All of the utility functions and
all of the reducers that I was just
using to manage the state, a lot of
those were all in TypeScript being
imported into JavaScript files, right?
So yeah, it takes a little
tweaking in the configuration.
And stuff along those lines,
but you can integrate them.
Now backwards, they all get typed as any.
>> The other way around.
>> Yeah, they'll get types and you can
pull JavaScript files, cuz obviously,
as we know, the JavaScript ecosystem is
way bigger than the TypeScript ecosystem.
You can pull them in, you just then
have to, in one of those definition,
the d.ts files, you then have to go and
start declaring types for
what it should be based on stuff, right?
And so you can integrate them and
to your question of,
what is the sell on some of these things?
Some of this is dealing with the fear,
uncertainty and
doubt about it, which is the store,
you've always theoretically been
able to slowly migrate from
JavaScript to TypeScript.
However, the 2018 version of that story,
I guess, it was technically true.
The 2022 story is a lot better, but
sometimes you always have to deal with,
well, I tried TypeScript once and
I didn't like it, right?
And yeah,
I tried Flow before I tried TypeScript.
And I was like, nah, not for me, right?
Sometimes that learning curve is tricky,
but I think the benefits.
I am at the point now where it's not using
TypeScript, or even though I use it,
I will reach a Redux very quickly as well.
Because the reliability
especially with Redux toolkit,
the reliability I'm getting those
types and just the as I'm coding,
it's every time I go back to just
not having either Vanilla Redux or
and or because the types, right?
It's very nerve-wracking, right, and
I think once you see the benefit,
but yes, how do we to tell your team,
hey, next sprint,
what if we were slower cuz we
were learning a new thing?
It is tricky, right?
I think it's one of those things that
has to be done with a lot of empathy.
So yes, you will annoy them.
It will be rude, but
maybe it's good, yeah, yeah.
>> Yeah, if I recall correctly, the lazy
version of the query will let you have
control at exactly what
point you can fetch.
>> Yeah, when you choose to kick it off.
So you can have the hook with lazy,
you choose when you want to invoke it.
That one is just gonna fetch the data.
>> And that happens.
So effectively,
it's equivalent to started rendering
the same fetch, or how does that work?
>> I have not, so I have dug into the
colorful SWR, which doesn't use effect,
right?
They do a trick with a ref.current and
then to concurrent,
get it at a different point in the cycle,
right?
And then use that ref.current to make
sure they don't repeatedly do it.
So they do it initially, and the reason
we use use effect is that array,
make sure it doesn't happen again
like the empty dependency array.
A ref has a current that is
persisted through re renders.
So once you set that from false to true or
whatever, you have access to it again.
My assumption is that is what they use,
right?
I have not dug into this code base,
I have dug into some of the other ones to
figure out, what you're doing in there?
And that is the methodology
that those use and
that is what I'm going to assume that
they're doing but I don't actually know.
The other thing could be actually,
if I was gonna make assumptions,
the store is already going.
The store is completely external and
not relying on a hook.
There's probably, we saw it, hold on.
Let's go back over.
Here's my hypothesis,
because that's what you wanted, right?
[COUGH] I'll start this up again.
My suspicion is that around the time that
an event got fired, [CROSSTALK] yeah.
>> Yeah, because there is a timestamp
of zero difference, right?
>> Yeah, so it's probably, they probably
can fire an action on the mountain, too.
Since the nice thing that Redux gets that
hooks doesn't get you is it is completely
pulled away from the reaction component
cycle and not beholden to it.
Anything involving use the fact, anything
involving the component lifecycle,
it can dispatch events.
It lives outside of the component
lifecycle and do whatever it wants.
>> But I think you're right,
judging from the timestamps,
there is zero delay between when
middleware registers and depending.
>> This was the application component,
so we're kind of cheating to write.
It is the very first component
that mounts in the application.
>> I know.
>> But likely, I'm gonna guess that
the hook fires that basically immediately.
And it doesn't need to use use
effect because it's not a component,
it's not beholden to the re renders.
Awesome, thank you all so much.
>> Thank you.
>> [APPLAUSE]